## Docker Orchestration

This two day hands-on course is designed to give Docker users a comprehensive introduction to Docker orchestration with Docker Compose and Swarm. The course begins with an introduction to compose and its purpose, followed by a lab which gives attendees a chance to install compose and build some basic compose applications. The next two modules of the course cover the entire Compose DSL, giving attendees a comprehensive look at the container configuration possibilities. Compose was originally a tool used for launching multiple isolated environments on a single host to simplify development and testing operations. Compose and the core Docker platform have developed rapidly in recent months, enabling many new production use cases. This course examines the use of Compose in desktop, test and production settings, including its integration with Docker Swarm.

Day two of this course focuses on running applications using Docker Swarm mode. The Docker swarm architecture is introduced in the first module followed by a lab which configures a small Swarm cluster. Nodes and node configurations are covered, introducing attendees to managers and workers the Raft and Gossip protocols and various docker commands for working with clusters. The new Distributed Application Bundle (DAB) image format is covered along with stacks, services, tasks, nodes and other Docker Swarm primitives. Docker services are covered in depth, including replicated and global service operation, scaling features, tasks, task states and failover.

This is an instructor-led training (ILT) class and is available for onsite and online delivery.
